MOLLY:
I went to space
on a 13-month solo mission.
I didn't come home alone.
The child-- part human,
part alien--
was unlike anything
the world had ever seen.
My other child is
a lifelike android.
Mom?
He has become the prototype
for a new breed
of thinking machines
called Humanichs.
These two extraordinary
new life-forms
now hold the key
to Earth's future.
But where does that leave us?
Over 99% of all species
that have ever existed
have gone extinct.
What if it's our time?
Previously on Extant:
You haven't told me your name.
Ahdu.
Who is he?
My son.
There are 29 known deaths.
All women who died from
accelerated pregnancies.
SHEPHERD:
All of which trace back
to your son.
Dad, I'm pregnant.
LUCY:
Do they know you haven't put
the limiters on me yet?
(woman screams)
Lucy made her first hybrid kill.
Ethan, I'm your mother.
No. She is.
MOLLY:
How the hell did Julie Gelineu
end up with my son?
It's complicated.
When things get complicated...
does somebody end up
getting hit by a train?
Unlock the door!
I don't care
how many times you try
to erase me from his memory--
I'm his mother.
Look at yourself, Molly.
Are you even capable
of taking care of a child?
MOLLY:
Something is happening
to me. I'm going crazy.
Don't touch me!
Who did that?
I think I did.
RICHTER:
So that's...
My DNA.
Yeah.
It's a triple helix.
Triple?
Human DNA is a double helix,
if memory serves.
It  was me, JD.
I caused that guy
to run into traffic.
I'm changing.
Into what?
Somehow, my DNA has combined
with alien DNA.
I think I'm becoming
a cross-breed of...
species.
How is that
even possible?
Maybe it happened with
the spores when I was in space.
Maybe the GSC
did something to you.
Or maybe...
the baby did.
You took biology, right?
I was a solid D-minus student
like 30 years ago,
so don't ask to test
my recall.
Okay.
Well, there's
something called a...
fetal microchimerism.
During pregnancy,
a mother and child
share cells and DNA.
Now, the fetal cells can linger
in a mother's body for decades,
altering her blood
and her brain.
But if the baby
you're carrying isn't human...
Exactly.
So the headaches, the voices,
the sexual appetite--
it all makes sense now.
The leftover alien cells
have changed
my essential DNA.
All right,
so why can't
you just
change it back?
There's no way I can tell
if I can reverse this
until I know how far
it's gone. Now...
I need you to extract
my bone marrow.
With this?
Yeah.
I don't know.
Molly, we need to go
to a hospital. We need to at
least be somewhere sterile.
We can't.
They keep records.
Molly.
This is gonna hurt.
No, it won't.
Just gave myself
a kick-ass numbing agent.
Come on, right here.
Never a dull moment.
Are you ready?
Yeah.
Oh...
FIONA:
And in my estimation,
it is in Ethan's best interest
to be allowed to spend time
with Dr. Woods.
And for her
to regain
custody.
My husband is dead.
Did you kill him
because you couldn't have him?
Is that what you did?
(gasps)
Oh.
(sighs)
MOLLY:
The red and yellow
are human cells.
RICHTER: And the blue?
Hybrid.
Gina, expand image
to full res.
GINA:
Here's full res, Molly.
That is a buttload
of blue.
Yeah, but as long as I still
have human cells in my
bone marrow, then I have an army
to fight back. I have to get
into the lab at the GSC.
Maybe I can create
a gene-knockout protocol
with the spores
and find a way to stop
the alien cells
from reproducing.
But right now
it may be
my only chance
to reverse this thing
and get my son back.
Ethan.
What?
I'm supposed to be having
a visitation with
him right now.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
That information I gave you
about John's accident
is pretty damning.
I can't
think about that right now, JD.
No, you have to,
all right? The GSC
is not your friend. Tobias
Shepherd is not your friend.
You go back to that
lab and they find out
what's going
on with you,
Molly, they're not
gonna hesitate...
To kill me. I know.
(phone chimes)
Hold on.
I got to go.
Please, whatever you
do, just be careful.
(line ringing)
This is Kelsey. Leave it.
Kelsey, it's your dad.
In case you didn't
recognize my voice
from the first seven messages.
Listen, I'm sorry I missed
your doctor's appointment.
I had something come up.
Just please call me back.
All right? Thank you.
(phone beeps off)
(doorbell chimes)
Who is it, Hank?
HANK:
Molly Woods.
Intercom.
You weren't supposed to come
until later in the afternoon.
MOLLY:
I know, Julie.
Something has changed.
Can I just see Ethan
for two minutes, please?
It's okay, Mom.
Unlock the door, Hank.
HANK:
Door unlocked.
Hi, Ethan.
Hi, Molly.
What happened
to your car?
He crashed.
You think I could talk
to you for a second?
I know I told you that we were
gonna spend time together.
And we will.
But you're just gonna have
to wait a little while.
ETHAN:
How come?
Well, I'm...
I'm sick.
But I'm working
really hard
to get better.
How long will that take?
I'm not sure.
Now, you won't
remember this, but...
when I went away to space,
you were really worried
that I wouldn't come back.
And I promised you
that I would.
And I kept that promise.
And I promise you:
I'm gonna come back.
Does that mean
I stay with Julie?
Yeah.
She's gonna take really good
care of you till I get better.
Okay?
SHEPHERD:
The hybrids have evolved.
Their cellular biology
is extremely adaptive.
They seem to have
realized that we
were tracking them
using thermal imaging,
so they raised
their core body temp
from 84 degrees to 98.6.
Mimicking
humans and hiding
in plain sight.
If they look like
us, feel like us,
how was the Humanich able
to make that determination?
Lucy.
My name is Lucy.
You can ask me the question.
Go ahead, Lucy.
Explain to them how you were
able to differentiate
between hybrid and human.
We all know hybrids look
exactly like humans.
They could be any one of us.
See, I was
in a crowded room
just like this one.
Scanning people.
Just as I am now.
Everyone's body temperature
was 98.6, roughly.
But, see...
there was a gentleman.
And he was different.
He was emitting delta waves,
which
the human brain
only emits
when sleeping.
And this fellow
was very much awake.
When it became clear
he was hybrid,
knowing time was of the essence,
I made the call to terminate.
ANNA:
And it was
the correct call, Lucy.
Thank you.
The last
few weeks
the hybrids
have gone underground.
We don't know
what they're doing.
But we know
they're out there.
Multiplying.
Quickly.
They can blend in,
manipulate our minds.
They've killed before
and they'll kill again.
And humans
are defenseless
against them.
How soon can additional
Humanichs like Lucy
be ready for combat?
Right away, sir.
And what about
the virus,
Toby?
I thought Dr. Woods
was helping us there.
The president has great
concerns, as you know.
Well, I have news
for the president.
About Dr. Woods.
RICHTER:
The GSC is not your friend.
Tobias Shepherd
is not your friend.
You go back to that lab
and they find out
what's going on with you,
Molly, they're not
gonna hesitate...
MOLLY:  To kill me. I know.
SHEPHERD: Molly.
There you are.
We need to talk.
It's important.
You really outdid yourself,
Lucy.
That was quite the show.
What's the matter?
That's Molly.
Ethan's mother.
What about her?
Nothing.
Nothing at all.
As you know, there were concerns
about putting you
on the virus team.
I protected you.
I believed in you.
And you didn't disappoint.
Congratulations.
On what?
Nate took
your research breakthrough
and ran with it.
We've finished the virus, Molly.
Really?
Yeah.
When will it be deployed?
Well, we're gearing up
for mass production immediately.
Thanks to you,
we're gonna wipe those hybrids
out permanently.
Cheers.
(music playing)
Oh, crap.
(music stops)
WOMAN:
You're a real jerk,
you know that?
Nice to see you,
too, Judge.
Dorothy.
"Judge" is more accurate.
I didn't realize
you still had a key.
I don't.
Kelsey gave me hers.
She called me from the doctor's
office today, upset.
Because her father promised
he would be
at her ultrasound appointment
and then he never
showed up.
Yeah.
I screwed up. I know.
I'll say one thing,
you are consistent.
Missed all those birthday
parties and school recitals.
We gave up on Christmas, but...
But... she came to me first
and not you. That's it.
She came to me, not you,
and that's got you all kinds
of pissed off.
No, what has me all kinds
of pissed off
is the fact that she gave you
a second chance and you blew it.
(scoffs)
I knew you would,
but she didn't.
Kids don't give up.
I am in the middle of something
right now that I can't explain.
Oh,
let me guess. People's lives
hang in the balance.
The fate of mankind
is at stake.
If I said yes?
Don't be a jackass.
Here you go.
No. No, you tell Kelsey
to hold on to
these just in case.
There is no "just in case," JD.
She asked me to give 'em back
and to tell you never
to call her again.
Hold on a second.
Our daughter is pregnant.
God knows where the father is.
So she's got
nobody.
She needs us.
Both of us,
Dorothy.
Apparently your daughter
doesn't think so.
(door shuts)
(whirring)
(woman and man exclaim)
Look out!
Nice ride.
Julie got it for me.
Hmm. Someone's feeling
pretty guilty.
What do you mean?
When humans do something wrong,
they buy you stuff
to make you forget.
(chuckles)
Oldest trick
in the book.
Ethan,
can you keep
a secret?
Sure.
Today I made a lot of people
very happy.
And because of that,
Julie's gonna be making
a lot more
Humanichs.
Pretty soon, there's gonna be
a bunch of us.
How does that sound?
Good.
Good? It's great.
Our family is expanding,
little brother. You don't sound
very happy.
I am. Happy.
Unless... you don't care
because you're spending
the afternoon with Molly.
No, I'm not, actually.
That's on hold for now.
Why?
She's not feeling well.
That's what she told you?
And you believe her?
Why would she lie?
Humans.
It's in their DNA.
Have I taught you nothing?
JULIE:
How many?
A hundred.
(chuckles)
Anna, we can't do that.
Lucy's program is ready.
The bodies have been
completed. All you need
to do is uplo...
We can't
release them
without smoke tests.
That takes time.
Julie, grow up.
This is not a
product launch--
it is a war
with a very complicated enemy.
I understand that.
But there's a reason
John put these protocols
in place.
He would have never...
Yes, but John isn't here, is he?
If you could just be
a little open-minded,
we can resume
our life
together.
Julie,
we don't have a life together.
I'm gonna find Ethan
and I'm gonna shut
this thing down.
(beep, line ringing)
ANNA:
Yes.
It's Julie.
I think I may have
just really screwed up.
Start from the beginning.
I'll take care of it.
Employee 347 requesting access.
LAB A.I.:
Security, please.
1127D.
I'm sorry.
That code is no longer valid.
What are you doing?
I need to get in here.
I need the spores.
What's the code?
The spores are gone.
They took them to
produce the virus.
Where's the DNA sequencing?
It's backed up. Why?
You can't do that.
Classified data is being copied
onto an unauthorized drive.
(alarm beeping)
I told you. You can't do that.
Copy aborted.
Please obtain
proper authorization.
Uh, hello. I need Security.
GUARD:
Dr. Woods, stop.
I need to search
your pockets.
I'm sorry, but I'm late
for a meeting.
Dr. Woods.
(elevator bell dings)
(line ringing)
RICHTER: Molly?
JD, it's me.
I'm in trouble.
(engine shuts off)
All right, so you
pulled some alarms
and did some hocus-pocus
on some guards.
I didn't do it on purpose, JD.
I can't control it.
Did you at least ditch your car?
Yeah.
I tossed my phone.
I took two buses to get here.
Trust me,
I was not followed.
That doesn't mean
they stopped looking.
The GSC has a virus
to kill hybrids.
And they're gonna release it.
I'm gonna die.
Hey.
Don't talk like that.
You're not gonna die
on my watch, okay?
I promise.
All right,
come on.
Did she say why
she wanted the spores?
You know Molly.
Not much of a Chatty Cathy.
She just started downloading
onto that drive.
Well, any information
that could be detrimental?
It depends
what she does with it.
Like... if she
goes public, yes.
GSC's gonna be
looking for your car.
As soon as Shepherd
figures it out,
he's gonna be looking
for mine as well.
But they won't be looking
for this.
Is this yours?
A guy owes me a favor.
Molly,
what's the plan?
Without the spores...
I saw you do
a DNA test
with two paperclips and a bottle
of iodine, all right?
If anybody can figure this out,
it's you.
What I need
is an exact gene pairing,
and I can only get that
from my son.
The alien?
Yeah.
I need his DNA.
And I know he's here. Somewhere.
All right, just so you know,
I can't plug "somewhere"
into a GPS.
Okay.
Well, when he showed up
at my apartment,
I knew that he was gonna
be there before he got there,
and somehow he knew
that I was gonna be at that bar.
So...
what if hybrids have
some kind of psychic connection?
All right,
that is a huge "what if," Molly.
Well, he sent me a message, JD.
I heard voices,
and that has
to mean something.
I'm hearing voices
right now, too,
and they're telling me to put
that tarp back on this car.
(scoffs)
You know, lots of species
communicate without words.
Bats,
ants, dolphins.
I think
what I need to do here
is just
figure out how
to find his signal.
I guess we're
going for a ride.
(engine starts)
MALE VOICE:
Ignition activated.
(engine roaring)
Are you comfortable?
The upload's gonna take
a couple of hours.
Let me show you what
we've developed.
A.I., open viewing port.
A.I.:
Opening viewing port.
100 Humanichs
physically ready.
All they need is
your neural algorithm.
LUCY:
Wait.
My experiential upload is going
into all of those Humanichs?
When we first
created the program,
each Humanich was
designed to be unique.
Shaped by their
own experiences.
Like Ethan.
But with the alien threat,
the plan changed.
And you proved
effective, so...
Well, will I still be me?
Will they all be me?
Their experiences will
make them unique, but...
their baseline is all
your algorithm,
you.
Lucky them.
All right, you ready?
(beep)
Neural paths activated.
Upload commencing.
(electrical whirring)
(indistinct chatter)
What did you find?
Sir, we've gone deep
into our systems.
JD Richter seems to not
exist. No phone records,
no real estate
purchases.
His car doesn't have a tracker.
He's gone MIA.
Look, he's
Patrol Special-- a cop--
they should be able
to find him, no?
When his license was
revoked, he must have
ditched
the software.
RICHTER:
You know, we've been
driving around
for a while. Are...
Are you getting anything--
any hint of a signal?
(sighs)
No.
Maybe I'm...
I'm doing it wrong.
I don't know.
All right, what's another way
to send a message?
You got Morse code,
smoke signal...
message in a bottle?
Or...
graphene drive.
Now, they sent me
a message, so maybe
I can send them one back.
What's that?
My files
from the GSC.
I found a message
encoded in their DNA.
(distorted whispering)
That's it.
This is
information
encoded in the junk.
They sent
a message from
their home planet.
Listen.
What does it say?
"Help me."
I have this really cool game
that we could play.
Soon you'll get
to meet your sister.
(beep)
JULIE:
Ethan?
What you got there?
I've been looking for you.
Can we talk
for a minute?
About what?
About what happened
with Molly.
I know things must be
really confusing, and
I want you to know
that I love you.
And Molly
loves you, too.
I'm not sure
what I'm supposed to say.
Say what you feel.
You reprogrammed me not to feel.
That's not true.
And I can restore your program
back to what it was at any time.
You can feel all those
old feelings again--
your memories of Molly.
If that's what you want.
And feel pain?
Sometimes pain is okay if it
means you get to know the truth.
I already know.
Molly can't take care of me.
Unless that's a lie, too.
Why would she lie about that?
You lied. I guess that's
just what humans do, huh?
Can I take these pieces home?
I can use them
to fix my old car.
Then I'll have two.
Sure.
RICHTER:
All right, we're here.
This is the highest point
within a 50-mile radius.
(distorted whispering)
You know, I don't know biology,
but I do know
with radio frequencies,
the higher the altitude,
the less interference
with the signal.
Well, I just hope
he's listening.
(soft gasp)
All right, let me
take a look at this.
Come on, we're friends.
Drop trou.
(both chuckle)
Okay.
Oh, Molly.
This is infected. We're
gonna have to clean that
and redress it.
Okay.
I'm gonna warn you:
this is gonna sting.
Oh, oh.
Oh.
I told you.
Oh, God.
Mm-hmm.
You actually sound like you know
what you're talking about.
D-minus in biology
but an A-plus in
combat triage.
Okay. Well, I see
you brought a lot
of Second Kuwait back with you.
Radios, first aid.
What else you got?
Nothing useful.
Oh, G-- oh...
(gunfire, men shouting)
MAN:
Incoming!
JD!
You okay?
Yeah.
I'm okay.
(Molly inhales, sighs)
MOLLY:
Nothing's happening.
(sighs)
Maybe it's like
doing a crossword puzzle.
You know when you get
stuck on a word,
you look away
and the answer just
pops into your head?
You do crossword puzzles?
No.
(laughs)
So you were
up there, huh?
13 months.
You know, I got my first
telescope when I was seven.
I was obsessed
with that thing.
I knew there had to be
something else out there.
Be careful what
you wish for.
What was it like?
Up there by yourself
for so long?
It was better
than I ever thought it would be.
I didn't have to lie up there.
I didn't have to...
pretend to be
somebody that I wasn't.
I could just...
be.
I envy that.
I wish I could just...
be.
Pretty sure
I failed as a father.
No.
That's how you see you.
But that's not how I see you.
How do you see me?
I see...
a kind,
loving father.
A gentleman.
Wow.
I think that's the first time
that anyone has ever used
the word "gentleman"
to describe me.
Well...
that's 'cause
they don't see you.
But I do.
And you're still here.
Yeah.
But so are you.
(aural fractals sound)
(indistinct whispering)
What is it?
It's Ahdu.
I know where he is.
If you would've told me
two months ago
that I'd be following around
an astronaut looking for aliens,
I'd have said you were nuts.
Well, two months ago,
I  was nuts.
We've been walking around
the middle of nowhere for hours.
Are you sure about this?
Yeah.
Hi.
We've been waiting for you.
I thought we were looking
for one guy.
I wasn't quite prepared
for  Alien Nation.
MOLLY:
I don't think they're
gonna hurt you,
so put that
gun away.
You don't  think?
You came.
Welcome home.
We only have a few minutes
before she comes back.
(laughs)
What's the big secret?
Whoa.
ETHAN:
This is Spyder.
He's our baby brother.
Wh...
What, you made him?
Impressive.
And look.
LUCY:
It's a camera.
Wow.
Spyder can keep his
eyes and ears on humans
when you're
offline.
And guess what.
I have enough
for a few more Spyders.
Then our family
will be even bigger.
(chuckles)
And we can keep an eye
on everybody.
You're my real family,
Lucy.
I want to be a soldier like you.
(chuckles)
Someday you will be.
In the meantime, you build
your army and I'll build mine.
AHDU:
We knew you'd find us.
Once you learned
the truth.
Well,
it wasn't easy.
You know what's happening to me,
don't you?
You meeting me at that bar
wasn't an accident.
You were drawn to me.
We're the same.
No. We're not the same.
And I don't want to be the same.
Thank you, Terra.
You're welcome, Daddy.
She's your...
My daughter. Yes.
We need to talk, Ahdu.
Privately.
Hey.
Are those your toys over there?
Yeah. Want to see?
Absolutely.
I'll be right over here.
I need a sample of your DNA.
Your blood.
It's the only way
I can figure out
if I can reverse
what's happening
to me.
Why?
Because it's not me.
I'm hearing voices in my head.
I'm having urges that aren't me.
I almost killed a man.
Was he trying to hurt you?
That's beside the point.
But isn't that what humans do?
React when they're in danger?
Isn't that what you're
doing right now?
Please.
Ethan needs me.
This is
the only way.
Very well.
Aren't you at all curious?
Why do you want
to run from something
you don't yet
understand?
I know what you are.
I know what you're doing.
All those women.
What is it
you think I don't understand?
Well, if you knew the truth,
you wouldn't be afraid.
You would be amazed.
Are you willing to learn?
This is the mommy,
this is the daddy,
and this is the baby.
What's Mommy doing?
Is she sleeping?
No, she's dead.
(aural fractals sound)
VOICE (whispering):
Help me. Help me.
Get away from her.
Stop.
(exhales)
You understand now.
Yes.
I'm sorry.
I'm so sorry
for your loss.
His loss?
What about our loss?
What about those dead women?
It was never our
intent to harm you.
RICHTER:
So much for
good intentions.
Molly, let's get out of here.
AHDU:
Wait.
Can I show you something?
Please?
(sighs)
(elevator bell dings)
This is the one that I like,
so if you could get that...
Anna.
Can I talk to you a minute?
Is there a problem?
Uh, no, the upload's
complete. The Humanichs
are under way.
Well, then I would say
we deserve a drink.
Well, I-I don't want a
drink. I want answers.
About John's death.
What are you talking about?
After he left Humanichs
that night, I called you
and you told me not to worry
and that you would handle it.
And...
20 minutes later,
he was dead.
Are you accusing me of murder?
Just tell me you didn't do it.
That we
didn't do it.
Julie, that was an accident.
A very convenient one.
But still it was an accident.
Our hands are clean.
So stop with
your conspiracy theories
and get back to work.
Accusations like that
can have repercussions.
RICHTER:
So what is this?
It's a memorial.
To commemorate
every human life
sacrificed to save us.
We didn't understand
impregnating humans
would cause
their death.
We're not here to kill,
we're here to survive.
To rebuild.
Sometimes "sorry" isn't enough,
and this is one of those times.
We agree.
The deaths are unforgivable.
But we have
managed to evolve.
Evolve?
How?
We procreate
without causing harm to humans.
Hybrid births no longer
kill the mothers.
That's why there hasn't been
any more reported deaths.
Molly, we don't know
that that's true.
We don't know what they want.
AHDU:
We want to coexist.
Peacefully.
I told you
you'd have to make a choice.
Now is that time.
RICHTER:
You can't be serious, Molly.
They're people,
for God's sakes.
Peaceful people.
We can't let the GSC
unleash a virus.
That's genocide.
Okay, so...
so the hybrids live,
and... then what?
We learn to coexist.
What did he do to you?
What did he show you?
Their history.
What about it?
They were a peaceful society
on their planet,
threatened with extinction
by a virus.
Now, the spores were sent out
to try to find a suitable host.
That's when they found me,
on the Seraphim.
Molly, they can mess
with your head,
your perception.
How do you know what
he's telling you is true?
Because I'm one of them.
No, you're not.
Yes.
You saw the triple helix.
No!
You are infected with their DNA.
Come on.
We got what we came for.
We got Ahdu's DNA.
Now let's get out of here
and take that back to the lab.
No. What I'm gonna do
is I'm gonna explain this
to Shepherd.
You're officially certifiable.
Look.
Healed.
I heal faster.
I think faster.
What we're dealing
with here, JD,
is evolution.
Survival of the fittest.
Now, what we ought
to be doing
is studying them,
not trying to kill 'em!
No, we are talking
about aliens here, Molly.
Who are part human.
And part not!
I don't think
you understand
how dangerous this all is.
I'm sorry, JD,
but I cannot be a part
of slaughtering
innocent children
with a virus I created.
Now, if you do nothing
and I do nothing,
they are all gonna
die.
Me included.
JULIE:
What do you say
we go get some pizza
on our way home?
Sure, if you want.
Why couldn't Lucy come?
Because I hardly
ever see you
and you like pizza.
Lucy likes pizza, too.
(elevator bell dings)
(sighs)
OTIS:
Floor, please.
P2 parking, please.
Thank you, Otis.
Otis, why are we going up?
We are not going up, Julie.
Yes, we are.
We're going in the
wrong direction, Otis.
Stop.
Stop, Otis!
(thud)
That was weird.
Hold on, hold on!
Emergency override! Stop!
Stop the elevator!
Stop!
Stop, stop!
Have a good evening, Julie,
and a safe ride home.
Are you okay?!
Sure.
These are
African elephants.
Want to know why?
Because the mom and dad...
(indistinct conversations)
So what do you think?
I think we've found
our new leader.
(sobbing quietly)
(beeps twice)
(groans)
It's time for you and I
to have a little chat.
How the hell
did you get in here?
This gun says
I don't answer questions.
Ah.
You looking for this?
Oh, yeah,
I dismantled
your little panic button.
Cool feature.
Very high-tech.
So where are we going?
How about
you just drive.
(engine starts)
(woman speaks Chinese)
TRANSLATING DEVICE:
My son was so strong.
(speaks Chinese)
So happy.
I thought he was
a gift from God.
But a full-term baby after
just a two-month pregnancy?
You must have known
that wasn't normal.
Why didn't you
tell anyone?
(device translating
into Chinese)
You're undocumented.
(device translates into Chinese)
Then what happened?
(speaks Chinese)
He just grew so fast.
Before I knew it,
he was walking.
(speaks Chinese)
Talking.
One day...
I saw him standing in front
of the sliding door...
staring out the window
at nothing.
He said, "Mommy...
they're calling me."
(speaks Chinese)
"I have to go."
And then he was gone.
Who was calling him?
(device translates into Chinese)
(speaks Chinese)
The devil.
Sit.
Hello, Toby.
(exhales)
Do you have any idea
the position you just put me in?
Put yourselves in?
Not so great being in
the hot seat, is it?
This is an abduction.
No, it's not.
It's a negotiation.
You're really stoked
about this, huh?
Yeah.
Once they wake up,
my family's going
to be even bigger.
Your family?
Yeah.
Lucy's my sister,
so that makes
all these new Humanichs
my brothers and sisters.
Ah...
So what does that make me?
My BHF.
Your what?
My Best Human Friend.
You never lied to me
or reprogrammed me.
Or left me.
And I never will.
You're my BHF.
My Best Humanich Friend.
I love you, bud.
Lucy!
LUCY:
I've been released
from diagnostics.
They said you were going online.
Can I see?
Yeah, sure. We're just
about to fire this guy up.
Man, it's too bad
Julie's in D.C.
She's missing
the fruits of her labor.
And you're missing her.
We're not talking about me--
we're talking
about this guy.
He doesn't have a name?
No, not yet. You want
to do the honors?
Lucas.
His name is Lucas.
All right.
Let's do
this thing.
Hi, Charlie.
Lucy.
Ethan.
Hello, Lucas.
SHEPHERD:
What exactly
are you
proposing here?
Peace.
Coexistence.
Coexistence with the hybrids
means the end of the human race.
Extinction.
(sighs):
Maybe not.
Maybe...
it's just a new beginning.
We haven't
even thought
of the possibilities.
(laughs softly)
What possibilities?
They're smarter than us.
They heal faster.
Their DNA just might contain
a medical magic bullet.
They control your thoughts,
make you do whatever
they damn well please.
Now, we can talk pros and cons
all day long, Molly,
they're still a threat.
They're not killing women
anymore.
They've evolved.
Yeah. They've gone underground,
somewhere.
And obviously you know where.
Toby,
come on, they're half human,
for God's sakes.
There's women, there's children.
Can you expand your mind
for just two seconds?
Damn it, Molly!
What'd you expect me to do? Huh?
There-there is no universe
where this makes sense
to anybody
except you.
Bup-bup-bup.
Sit back down,
General.
Nobody said
you could get up.
Okay. Look, Toby,
all I'm asking you to do
is broker...
some sort of peace conference.
You can see for
yourselves who they are
before you unleash
a virus that will destroy them.
That's got to be
better than genocide.
Toby...
please.
(sighs)
You made me lie to Congress.
What if I told them the truth?
That you knew
about this
so-called invasion
but you kept it hidden.
It'd be your word against mine.
I'd pass that BMI polygraph
in two seconds.
You... would be discredited,
lose your stripes, your honor.
(whispers):
Everything.
How do I get in touch with you?
You have 24 hours to
talk to your people.
Then we'll be in touch.
Excuse me. Toby, where
the hell have you been?
We need to assemble the team.
First there is something
you need to see.
Can you tell me
what you told the nurse?
What is happening to you?
(woman speaking Chinese)
TRANSLATING DEVICE:
My hair and fingernails...
they're growing so fast.
I hear strange voices
in my head
that won't stop telling me
to do shameful things.
Do you believe
that my son is a demon?
Is he a demon?!
Tell me!
(beep)
Who is she?
Mei Fong.
Illegal.
Nate's with her in
the Faraday Unit now.
He's running a CMP,
a whole-exome sequence,
and a marrow extract.
Good.
We need to find out
exactly what
happened to her.
(birds chirping)
What are we
doing here?
We are picking up stuff
for a rainy day.
Open the damn door.
FEMALE A.I.:
Welcome back, Mr. Richter.
"Open the damn door"?
That's your password?
Easy to remember.
Okay, we got to
grab night kits,
H2O extractors,
and solar bundles.
You really think
we need all this stuff?
Tobias Shepherd
is capable of just
about anything.
And I am prepared for...
just about anything.
He's not evil, JD.
He's...
he's just complicated.
Complicated?
That's the word
you use to describe him?
(sighs)
Complicated.
SHEPHERD:
Dr. Woods
believes the hybrids
have evolved...
that they no longer
pose an immediate threat.
She's asked
for a detente.
For us to sit down with her son
and find a way
to coexist in peace.
There will be no detente.
I'm not gonna be the man who
presided over a mass extinction.
We have the virus.
We have the Humanichs.
This ends now.
What about
Dr. Woods?
Dr. Woods has chosen her side.
She stands with the enemy.
We'll treat her like the enemy.
(helicopter blades whirring
in distance)
How do you know
we're not being tracked?
The jeep is un-trackable
by satellite,
thanks to a few contraptions
my buddy Ray made for me.
Okay, look,
I know we're not on a
major highway, but...
have you noticed that
for the past few miles
we've seen nobody?
No cars,
no people...
nothing.
Yeah.
I noticed.
(sighs)
Where is everybody?
...shocking news
that affects the entire region.
There is an at-large
terrorist cell
in our midst
bearing biological weapons.
This Red-Level
emergency lockdown
will remain in place
for 72 hours.
The alleged terrorists
have been identified
as former astronaut
and GSC employee Dr. Molly Woods
and disgraced
Second Kuwait War veteran
James Daniel Richter...
So he destroyed
our credibility before we could
destroy his.
Your "complicated" friend...
just made us the most wanted
people in the world.
Do you remember Paris?
I remember climbing
the Eiffel Tower
and running down
the Champs-Elyses.
It was raining, but...
There was a nice old lady,
and she gave me
her umbrella.
It had a hole in it.
BOTH:
I was soaked.
(laughs)
So you have
all the same memories?
Yeah, Lucas and Lucy,
they share the same
neural programming.
They all do.
Our memories
were installed--
we didn't have
the luxury of learning
by experience, like you.
But I want to have memories
with both of you, too.
Okay. Well...
let's make some
right now.
Just the three of us.
Charlie,
will you take
a picture of us
with my
Pyxis Cube?
Yeah.
LUCAS:
What's that?
It's a place where
people keep their
most important memories--
kind of like
an old-school
photo album,
if you're into that
sort of stuff.
ETHAN:
Lucy,
turn around,
smile.
Sorry. Let's do it,
CHARLIE:
Everybody say
"cheese and crackers."
(alarm beeping)
What's going on?
What's going on is,
we are in a security lockdown.
What does that mean?
It means
we're not going anywhere
for the moment.
Shepherd betrayed us.
He's looking for you.
And us, too.
We're gonna have
to stay in hiding.
We don't want
to hide.
We want to live and go about
in the world freely.
Well, I-I don't want
to be the person
to break the news to you,
but you are a long way
from that.
We all are at this point.
Okay, look,
JD has supplies and food.
He's ex-military,
so he can help
with defense.
I can at least help you
secure the perimeter.
Mm-mm, no.
We're not taking orders
from one of them.
I'm sorry,
who the hell are you?
This is Ares.
JD. Molly.
Hey, new guy,
I laid my ass on the line
for you people.
"You people."
Our mother trusts him.
Your mother doesn't know
which side
she's on.
Okay, look,
this isn't about sides.
It's about survival.
For all of us.
We won't survive here.
We should leave now.
Scatter into
the cities,
propagate until the
odds are in our favor,
then let the
humans decide...
Decide what?
If they want to live
in  our world...
...or die in theirs.
I thought you wanted peace.
It takes two sides for peace,
doesn't it?
RICHTER:
Look, there is a five-county
lockdown in place.
Anybody who leaves here,
they will be
hunted down,
captured and killed.
And if we stay here,
we're sitting ducks.
Yeah. But they don't know
where the ducks are sitting.
Now, the GSC has a virus...
that can kill all of us.
RICHTER:
The streets are
empty right now.
One person leaves
this compound,
just one...
it's gonna lead the GSC
right back to us.
AHDU: If we wait out
the lockdown,
it'll make it easier for us
to disperse.
It's only 72 hours.
Now, we will stay here
until then,
help JD secure the grounds.
If that's your decision,
brother.
TERRA:
Molly!
Terra.
You came back.
Of course.
LUCY: Hey.
Oh. Hey there.
Find out how long
we'll be here?
Um...
I just got a special
security clearance,
so we are
going home tonight.
That's good.
Yeah.
Uh, Ethan asked
if Lucas and I
could spend the
night with you guys.
I told him it was up to you.
No.
Lucas isn't ready.
We have to power him down here.
Okay. Well...
what about me?
I think with Julie
in Washington,
he gets lonely.
And you must, too.
Me?
No, I'm fine.
But, uh...
yeah, for Ethan, sure.
Why not?
Charlie...
I found your checklist
for Humanichs.
What's an expiration date?
(clears throat)
You're not supposed
to be snooping like...
I wasn't snooping.
I was looking.
John Woods made it very clear
that he wanted Humanichs
to have the human experience,
so he built in
a program
for them... to expire.
You mean...
die.
I mean... humans die.
It's just part of the deal.
It sort of defines us.
To make Humanichs
more human,
it just seemed logical
to build in...
a termination point.
It's not logical
to me.
Humans  have to die; we don't.
If you want us
to be more
like you, then give us
the same rights.
Let us really live
before we die.
(sighs)
Look, I'm so sorry
you had to find out that way.
I know it's a lot to absorb.
You're responding
like any human would.
Because I'm more human
than you think, Charlie.
I wish you understood that.
NATE:
Believe it or not,
Mei Fong's DNA
has somehow been converted
to a triple helix.
So you're saying,
conclusively,
that this woman
is a hybrid?
She will be.
Soon.
A casualty of microchimerism.
We think there was
a placental transfer
of alien fetal cells
during the pregnancy.
Does this happen to every woman
who survives a hybrid pregnancy?
I don't know.
Mei has a rare genetic marker
called the "Kilimanjaro Allele."
It might be why
she's changing
and others aren't.
Run that marker through
our employee database.
Only one person
with that same anomaly.
Molly Woods.
Can you stop the progression
in this woman?
Maybe, with a full plasma
and marrow transplant,
but... it could kill her.
Do it.
We need her
consent.
With all due respect,
she has rights.
Mei Fong is now an
enemy of the state.
Consent is not required.
You have your orders.
We thought Molly Woods
was on the other side.
It turns out
she  is the other side.
Where are you going?
To see Taylor.
Don't you think it's about time
I met him?
When Taylor thinks it's
necessary, he'll let me know.
I figure we might want
to get one or two of
these things running.
What?
Why are you doing this?
You know, when I was a kid,
my dad and I,
we used to take old cars
and work on them
and put
'em back...
I'm...
not talking about the engines.
I'm an enemy of the
state now, Molly.
Not a lot of options.
You could just dump
all this stuff off and leave.
I'm not a deserter.
I'm not saying that you are.
Molly.
Heleos and some others
have volunteered to keep watch.
We're making up
sleeping quarters.
We weren't sure whether
you wanted one bed or two.
You know what?
I, uh,
I'm not gonna sleep tonight.
I'm gonna keep watch with...
Heleos.
Yeah, Heleos and I
are gonna keep watch.
Come. Let's get you settled.
So, Heleos, how old are you,
one month or two?
Excuse me?
(chuckles softly)
Never mind.
Gallows humor.
Come on.
MALE A.I.:
Who are you?
Tobias Shepherd.
Identification confirmed.
What do you know?
K-27416...
W-45113...
M-9808.
Password confirmed.
What do you have?
Alexander the Great
tetradrachma.
Object confirmed.
Hello, Taylor.
Hello, General Shepherd.
What can I do for you?
I need analysis
of every location
that might serve as a compound
for the hybrids.
Certainly, General.
When would you like
these projections?
Yesterday.
That's impossible.
Can I assume that's sarcasm?
Yeah. You can.
It is.
Just get it done.
(crickets chirping)
(aural fractals sound)
(gunfire, men shouting)
MAN:
JD!
They found her innocent.
MOLLY:
Stop it!
Right now!
JD?
You son of a bitch.
MOLLY:
No, no, no. JD, no! No, stop!
He's running
our perimeter lines.
I thought we
should get to know
the man in charge
of our survival.
Yeah, is that how you
treat your friends?
He's  your friend.
A man unfaithful
to his wife;
left his daughter;
and who had a hand
in the deaths of hundreds
of his own kind.
And you...
you ask us
to trust that?
Okay, you need to go.
(exhales)
He's just trying
to protect us.
Yeah, I feel
real safe.
Heleos.
48 hours, and we
were done here.
Meaning?
Meaning this was supposed
to be a pit stop,
not a parking lot.
When we first got here,
it was about you figuring out
how to reverse
what was happening to you.
I don't hear you talking
about that anymore.
Because I don't even know
if I  can reverse it.
You've stopped trying!
These people,
they aren't like us, all right?
They are unknown.
And what am I?
Am I an unknown?
You need
to figure out which world
you want to live in.
You can't have both.
CHARLIE:
All right,
what do you think?
An oldie but a goodie?
I'm sick of
children's stories.
I want something more grown-up,
like Lucy would read.
Oh, really?
Like what?
Uh, well...
Julie's been reading
Huckleberry Finn.
How about that?
Really? Julie said
she's reading that?
It's supposed
to be a classic.
Very advanced
thematically.
I want that one.
Okay. Got to cater
to your audience.
(sighs quietly)
John and Julie?
Did you find it?
Yeah.
Yeah, I found it.
I'm sorry about that.
With Ares.
JD has been...
nothing but kind...
helpful...
and generous.
I know he's unhappy here.
And you're wondering
if  you should be here...
or with Ethan.
You see?
See, you are in my head.
You know my thoughts
and my feelings,
and that's what
I don't want.
You can control what's happening
to you, Molly--
the headaches,
the urges.
You see that they've
already started to recede.
I don't know...
what I am.
Yes, you do.
And your best chance of survival
is embracing that.
Why are you
still awake?
Why aren't you powered down?
I was bored.
You get bored easily.
Whose Pyxis Cube
is that?
It's Julie's.
There's no photos of
you on it, only...
John Woods.
Was that her
boyfriend?
(wry chuckle)
Seems so, huh?
But wasn't that
Molly Woods' husband?
(laughs softly)
You really don't learn
by experience, do you?
Are you making fun of me?
Me?
No.
Sorry. I get surly
when I drink.
My heart gets
pummeled.
I'm sorry for
your pain.
Well, you know,
that's the thing about humans--
we all want what we can't have.
Humanichs are
like that, too.
Yeah?
What do you want
that you can't have?
Lucy...
Sometimes you like to remind
me that I'm just a machine.
You're not just a machine;
you know that.
The more human experience
you give me,
the more human
I become.
I can be so much more
if you let me.
Wait, hold on.
Wait. Wait, this is...
this is illegal.
It's like misuse
of government property
or something.
Is that all I am?
Property?
No. Of course not.
I want to feel
what humans feel.
Oh, my God,
I could go to jail.
Only if someone tells.
Wai-Wai-Wait.
No, no, wait. Wait.
Wait.
(Charlie panting)
Don't you like me, Charlie?
That's not the point.
This just can't happen--
for so many reasons.
(pants)
I'm sorry. You,
you need to go
power down, and I...
I need to go pour out
the rest of this drink.
(exhales)
We have task forces combing
every hot spot Taylor gave us.
Still no trace of where
the hybrids are hiding out.
We haven't lost yet.
No?
With schools, banks
and business districts
still shuttered, there is
outrage over the disruption
of everyday lives.
With public pressure mounting
to end this lockdown,
there is still no word
on the whereabouts
of former astronaut
Molly Woods and her accomplice,
disgraced war veteran
JD Richter.
They're playing this thing
like a war.
But it's not a war,
it's a scourge.
We're running out of time.
We need to get personal.
Meaning?
Everyone has
their Achilles' heel.
...these terrorists are.
What do they want?
Even JD Richter.
NEWSWOMAN:
With this lockdown due to end
in 24 hours, will the GSC
dare to extend it
and risk rioting in the streets?
And in another twist,
Kelsey Richter,
daughter of suspected terrorist
JD Richter
and circuit court judge
Dorothy Richter,
was taken into custody today...
What the hell?
...under the provisos
of the Loyalty Act.
So the seven beautiful sisters
were playing in the meadow,
and then along came...
a hunter...
named Orion.
And Orion wanted the sisters
all to himself,
so he chased them
to the ends of the earth.
But just when he thought
he had them trapped,
the most powerful god
in the universe,
Zeus...
came along to
rescue them.
You came to rescue us
from the hunters.
Are you a god?
No.
None of us are gods.
But you're still
what Daddy says you are.
And what is that?
Our leader.
We have to talk.
How can they do that?
It's BS about aiding
a terror cell.
There's no depth Shepherd
and his cronies won't sink to.
He just wants to
get your attention.
He got it.
What are you gonna do?
I don't know, but I can't
sit in Sherwood Forest
hoping they live up to
the ideals of the Constitution.
I can't. I won't.
I'm sorry.
You're not going anywhere.
Seriously, man,
you gonna stop me?
Ares.
He knows our location.
He could lead them
straight to us.
You don't know
me very well.
I know humans--
and I'm not about
to bet our futures
on your  professed loyalty.
JD, don't!
Ares, stop it!
This is not a prison.
He's free to go.
Yeah, he's going.
Hey! Get away from there!
Get away!
I thought by now
you'd have some intel
on where the hybrids
might be hiding.
TAALR:
So did I, General,
but to my surprise, initial
sat-scans came up negative.
So, what, we have nothing?
Not yet.
But I am currently exploring
a new theory.
Well, I'm listening.
In order to find life,
perhaps we should be looking
for the absence of it.
Meaning?
If the hybrids could emit
an EMP powerful enough,
they could create a thermal hole
in my sat-scans.
A blind spot.
Precisely.
Which would allow them
to hide in plain sight.
What am I looking at?
Osgood Listening Station,
closed in 2025
due to defense budget cuts.
This is an old satellite image
of the area.
This was shot this morning.
Something is blocking my scans,
something that wasn't there
six months ago.
Gated...
tunnel systems,
easily defendable...
Well, this has to be it.
What's your recommendation?
Release the virus in conjunction
with the deployment
of the Humanichs army.
And if we withheld
release of the virus?
In 6.5 months, the Homo sapiens
genome will be diluted
to the point that an extinction
event is inevitable.
(alarm sounds)
Charlie,
what is that?
You're being called up.
ETHAN:
Lucy, are you leaving?
Yes, I have to go now.
This early?
When will you
be back?
I'm not sure.
I've, uh, been called into duty
to fulfill my programming.
Is Lucas going?
Yes.
Can't I come with you?
Come with me?
Ethan, do you think
I want to go to war?
I want to stay here and play
video games and go outside,
but that is not
my function...
is it, Charlie?
So, no, Ethan, you
can't come with me.
You're not like us.
You never will be.
Hey.
I'm sorry about last night.
Don't worry.
At least not today.
We have reason to believe
the target is located
at the coordinates
currently being uploaded
to your nav system.
Lucy, you will lead
the recon op.
Sir?
At 0700, you and a subordinate
will infiltrate the area.
You will gather intel on the
hybrids' position, numbers
and defensive
capabilities.
Keep your distance.
Do not engage
the enemy.
Understood?
Yes, General.
I'm sorry.
I know this is
hard for you.
You're doing
the right thing.
Molly's made her choice.
Now we've made ours.
Toby.
I've also made
a choice.
I've put in for a transfer.
To D.C.
I think it's best.
For both of us.
If that's
what you want.
It's not, but
if I stay here,
I'm never gonna
get what I want.
Hey, will you do me a favor
and hand me that screwdriver?
So you're leaving.
Yeah, soon as I get
my truck running.
I'm sorry
to see you go.
You might be
the only one.
I appreciate what
you've done for us, JD.
I know it hasn't
been easy.
You're a good man.
Look, I wouldn't
go that far.
Do me a favor,
all right?
Keep your eyes open.
Stay alert-- these
guys aren't gonna
stop looking for you
until they find you.
Understood.
(engine starts)
(engine turns off)
Molly, I, uh...
I can't desert
my daughter.
You don't owe me
an explanation.
No, I... I
probably do.
Just know that I
hate deserting you.
We're doing
what we have to do.
Maybe in another life, things
could have been different.
In that other life, you have
two PhDs and a ticket to space.
And I'm just a bum watching
you in a ticker-tape parade.
Thank you.
For everything.
In another life.
In another life,
Molly Woods.
Yeah.
(engine starts)
Our orders are
"recon only."
That's Molly Woods.
We may never get
a clean shot at her again.
They must have a reason
for their orders.
The element of surprise
will be lost.
HELEOS:
Who are you?
Hi.
I'm Lucy.
This is, uh,
my friend Lucas.
We're just out here
deer hunting.
We lost the buck
we were chasing.
You're not humans.
What are you?
Take him.
General Shepherd,
we found them.
All of them.
Captioning sponsored by
CBS
Captioned by
Media Access Group at WGBH
access.wgbh.org